so I was really excited to give this
talk because like you I'm out in the
world seeing lots of unusual or
technology examples and it was really
fun to put it all in one place and so
the first part of my talk I'm going to
give you a survey of what I think is the
coolest out there and then I'm
going to talk to you about my own a
sperm kind of my background and
experiments in our technology so I'm
really looking at
the edges of storytelling and I wanted
to give how many of you familiar with
this book art and physics
okay so this is my father so I kind of
grew up if you don't know it was written
in the 80s and seminal book here's one
of the first people just talk about the
connections between art and science
these were my bedtime stories and he
believed that artists and scientists
we're talking about the same ideas to
different languages one through images
and went through equations and goes all
throughout civilization
showing artists as
revolutionary artisan revolutionary
scientists have their matching ideas I
can't recommend the book enough I'm
totally biased but it's actually the way
at my husband who is an artist and
scientist went to hear my dad speak and
the calm of that night so artists
science as the subject is truly in my
DNA I also thought just in the little
context this was the geodesic dome built
behind my house so the full of
references in the program and my family
was very buckminster fuller's ideas and
it was like instead of a farm raising it
was a geodesic dome raising and in the
first concert I was out taking 2 miss
Lori Anderson and one of my favorite
quotes from my dad was if you're not
living on the edge you're taking up too
much space
and then his last book he actually
passed away but his last book was on da
Vinci who and my brother system i just
got it out there and he believed didn't
she was the future our species because
he has such a developed right in left
hemisphere and developed art and science
so i have been immersed in soaked in
these ideas my whole life so to kind of
show you what i think the best example I
was very exciting so I feel like um as
for the guys putting my antennas out
there just is actually the way I feel in
life is I'm always kind of trying to see
what's next or what
what people are where we're headed and
what people are wanting to talk about in
a lot of my work that's
when I was thinking a lot about
storytelling as a subject matter and I
[Music]
was thinking well I mean obviously we
know where storytelling species and what
is that about and you know it's for
entertainment it's for education it's
for cultural preservation and it's
really about instilling mortals a lot of
the stories that we tell that's what the
purposes of storytelling for our species
is and then I was thinking when I was
looking at all these edges of
storytelling what are they saying about
how we need to evolve that usually that
new form whether it was a good word
press or new forms of storytelling are
very illuminating to where we as a
species need to go or something we're
needing or how we need to evolve forward
so the different kinds of storytelling
that I didn't explore isn't film or
writing painting and theater and I'll
say it was I didn't I was taking news
West Virginia's and religion but I have
left that out this time but I would
start with um I'm a filmmaker and I was
you know always interested in film
history in the way that advances in
technology changed the way we made films
with Emma changed reality so before we
can move the camera was a big moment it
was very much like theater and then
suddenly we were able to start moving
the camera
which changed things inside and as a
document that's huge when we can move
the camera now the cameras doing so
small GoPros and how much that's
influencing the way that we can make
movies another huge movement for
independent I thought I left home show
it Sundance and my friends and I
everyone's moving into what we will call
the 10 hour movie which is original
series if you don't think of it that way
but normally making a film that's a 80
minutes and that's the arc and right now
it's just a golden age of 10 our movies
because you can think of all these
series that's the way you think of the
arc and you can get super nuance in the
story time and all the independent
filmmakers are moving into that space so
it's a really interesting time for just
story arc and you know transparent a
fantastic example of that
at a really exciting area how do you
know the artist Chris milk and of course
this was an early he said he did where
you know you type in your zip code and
music videos los Cena's but i love this
example minute pulls from YouTube's a
very nostalgic song and it pulled you
type in your zip code for those behind
seen it and in a whole
video of where you the neighborhood that
you grew up at that will play while
you're less very nostalgic song so
really specific to you one of my other
favorite pieces by Chris mode which they
showed it Sundance again this year is
the treachery of sanctuary we've seen
this piece yeah it's so beautiful it's
about creativity and it's very much
influenced by the movement of people
there's like a triptych of three screens
and one of the motions make is to convey
inspiration and your whole body turns
into the birds and then the second
triptych is about when you're the critic
and the birds are like eating you and
leaving your ideas and then the third
trip dick you go like this in front of
it and you will soon start to fly on
your idea really forms as such a
beautiful example of how the body is
influencing the screen screaming film
there's a lot of great examples of the
are happening today
for documentary and
this is a great example of this was at
the art piece where some people are
waiting in for a food bank line and
somebody falls down and collapses and if
you're in the VR goggles how much
empathy you feel and people feel
experiencing this and this was another
piece of anemia in a sunday asset to
actually feel that it's like to cross an
abortion line and it's called crossing
the line
it's incredibly powerful piece so the
visceral nature that we are can add to
documentary she also did great piece on
Syrian refugees and what it would really
feel like to have bombs go off and taken
so that that's a really interesting
space right now is document or ADR and
of course you know there are times
putting those very cheap versions and
the subscription is going to be you're
going to see such an explosion of that
and i put this example in because how do
you experience soaring over California
and Disneyland I actually fits so it
will blow your mind I as a filmmaker you
your Indies you're in these seeds and
they filmed it completely surrounding
you and they lift up the
chairlift that's what it really feels
like a chairlift and you start soaring
over California goat in an orchard field
and the smell of orange orchard grove
and then the house smells of oranges and
then you fly to Yosemite and I mean I
the first time at now is caught by doing
a diversion of it called soaring over
the world but I would just go to
Disneyland for this ride because it was
so powerful in the immersive nature of
the experience as a filmmaker I the
potential of kind of 360 film
surrounding people
okay so the next area I'm going to go
into is painting
from the original paintings
let's go there's a really exciting
software can and I on the advisory board
of this company called fuse and
so basically it used to be very
expensive to create 3d maps of spaces
and you would need teams of animators
and a lot of money and now there's a lot
of new technologies that are you can do
a 360 around a space and I'm actually
going to show that again so you can
change the charge us with your iPhone
and then even create a 3d map of the
space that you could then create a world
in so this is gonna revolutionize
animation because it's basically
democratizing it so even as a filmmaker
I have a small film studio in San
Francisco and I've got animators that
live in other places but to
the money would cost me to recreate
spaces just exhorbitant my confidence
this is going to really change who's
able to create these 3d animated spaces
anywhere and it's all through your
iphone I
another example of painting my husband
Ken Goldberg is
fessor at UC Berkeley of robotics and
he's also this part installations and he
he's done this piece that's really
evolved over the years so he took the
life-size me feed from Berkeley this
feat of the earth and he attached it to
paint and nothing colors and images and
this piece is called blue and he this is
actually this is a video example of him
shine the Earth's movements and he's
also worked with sound artists to attach
sounds to the movement of the earth so
one version of an installation you had
surround sound of the Earth's movement
as well as a visual when he he worked
with a San Francisco Ballet and Heather
that's cool dancer dancing live through
the sound of the Earth's movement
there's a lot of you know that you know
and that was such a collaboration
between us I geology lab at UC Berkeley
and artists of course the bay lights
that's a new kind of painting painting
averages with light a beautiful example
of our technology and then moving over
to performance
survival research science having been
the original and
uh they have a she had a show happening
on sunday night secret show and i'm sure
you can find out about if your interest
how do i get into srl show great
and
this one how do you have been to Sleep
No More in New York
great if you haven't your next trip to
New York you must go to the show and
what they've done is turned inside out
the whole notion of
audiences performer so they have a whole
building and there they have
reinterpreted Macbeth and the actors are
like performing / room and you're
wearing a mask and the
actors it's this is a very kind of
unusual and kind of sexy experience
because everyone's wearing masks and the
actors are right like inches from you
performing these incredible scenes and
you as an audience member can wander
into whatever we're no one will
experience the same
experience the same way but there's
there's a lot of really interesting
interactive performance is happening
right now so Sleep No More is definitely
on my list of one of the most exciting
things I've seen in the last decade
now this one how many be a part of
hopscotch the mobile opera ok this one I
did not experience because I couldn't
get down to LA but I wanted to so badly
so it's basically a local opera for
twenty four parts so you get picked up
by motorcycles limos buildings in the
Opera takes place as you're moving to
Los Angeles
sounds really good
so that's tough hopscotch this one I
actually saw this performance there's an
amazing conference in New York called
the future of storytelling they don't
got of that I
highly recommend it if you're interested
in this stuff and I saw dandy Punk
perform there and he does um
amazing performances with light so I
tried to describe a couple images that
he's on stage and he's using animation
and light projection in the most magical
way it's like I've never really seen
anything like it I couldn't grab a video
but the
ND punk if you can check him out I
highly recommend it it's very unusual it
reminds me of me while how many of you
have seen you up before oh
oh oh so you should have a come here
she's amazing she doesn't leak she's in
a group in la called cloud control and
as an art collective she's an amazing
animator and what she does is so these
images she's actually she's got screens
on stage and she goes behind the screens
and her shadow is projected and she's
created all these animations so she's
moving in his movie
with the animations that she's created
so looks like she's activated now
there's a great TED talk if you wanted
to see she's a while ago she did a TED
talk but she's got someone who performed
so she was in public magazine recently
this last month but she is so magical
and actually punk daddy not contain
dandy punk and Miwa I would call in the
same kind of genre of art and technology
on the stage that is mind-blowing and
then pop up mags me because I mean you
didn't pop up magazine
it's I love this kind of movement as
much as there's all these new
technologies but there's a big movement
on going back to the core they don't
allow any cell phones or recording in
the space and they'd be a major magazine
brought a magazine to life and they have
performers but not only performer
storytellers and video and it's a really
beautiful experience they had it at
davies symphony hall but i would highly
recommend subscribing the tickets sell
out in my 20 minutes if you want to go
and you get on an email you have to buy
ticket in 20 min so a sellout but i just
thought i'd show Oakland last week it's
fantastic and
the next kind of area and move into is
writing
this is I found this bag from 2013 but
there every five days of Billy many
stories are generated then I meet my
tiny stores how many are on Twitter here
I love Twitter i love the constraint of
twitter i think it's brilliant and i
follow and actually I'm going to tell
you just a couple of samples but
afterwards if anyone want to share with
me examples of storytelling on Twitter
and I think people like literally
telling stories through their tweets I
would love to know more examples this is
one of my favorites this is someone who
takes the first line of film scripts
that have women and just gives you the
first line and it's always and how
vacuous I usually is
but he's constantly kind of mining
stories and tiny them this was called
very short story where you throw it out
on and people turn it into a story and
then this one is perhaps my favorite and
it's God tweeting and
it's hilarious and and this was one of
my favorites I know for a fact that I
don't exist now I was for research in
stock retreating quite a bit of his
tweets God straight Socrates this male
image and all of a sudden I got Natalie
what's if God just followed you back
which is about the best I've ever
received in my living and
and then this is an artist just to go
back to the core elements of writing she
does live poetry with an old-fashioned
typewriter and I that to ease our
technology at its finest also I love
technologies digital stories and she's
wonderful Jacqueline Susskind deliver up
she's pretty amazing live
and in the last area that I'm going to
explore before I gotta go into my
experiment so our technology is oral
storytelling and
Janet Cardiff did any of you go to the
fort mason show she did she's amazing I
father worked for like 20 years and I
just find her work so evocative and
then I love this big trend back to
podcasts and I think it's fascinating
that as we have so many technologies
right now that there's a return to just
the intimacy of the snake to a podcast
you listen to podcasts and isn't there
like there's an intimacy there that I
just I've never felt in anything as I
was like well it's why isn't it like
radio because I was thinking a radio is
intimate but I think what it is is that
with the podcast it's so mobile it can
go with you so radio is so kind of bound
to a radio and i think the intimacy is
just that you can take that conversation
wherever you want to go and i right i
love that there's this big revival in
this very intimate oral storytelling
so those are kind of what i think are
the most exciting
examples of our technology so if you
have more to tell me I would love to
hear them afterwards but for me this is
stuff I've seen that it really feels
like it's pointing to something deeper
about cultures and I really started
thinking well what are all these
examples that I just gave what are they
pointing to so I all those edges of
storytelling what are they telling me
about our culture and our society and
what we're needing and
what I really can't use a lot of these
new forms of storytelling work there was
a lot of intimacy and then whether it
was the Sleep No More or the podcast
there was a lot more
apathy I think like as we're becoming so
screen and tech driven that creating
empathy is even more and actually just
because we're using the word technology
so much I thought it would be good for
you to understand the way i think about
technology
it is us you know it's the Marshall
McLuhan you know it is just an extension
of us it's not this other thing like
Earth and technology like we're human we
make art and technologies like the
extension of our fingers and our minds
and an amplification of all these things
so that's very much my framing so it is
just a tool a new to bending pencil for
us and but i think these new forms of
storytelling i was showing really to me
they show empathy they're showing we
need multiple perspectives on things we
want to feel connected and also there's
so many new ways to tell stories i think
we need to be really adaptable
that's also
examples were tiny and all of them
were pointing to this need to feel alive
and
each of those examples when I'm
experiencing those examples I feel so
alive and I think we're all so busy and
multitasking and zooming through this
world that anything that can make you
stop and say you know you're human you
have a motion you're alive as incredibly
powerful and I feel like that's what
we're craving as a culture as we are so
distracted
okay so that that was my survey of what
I love most exciting story telling i'm
going to give you kind of more of where
i'm coming from on all this I kind of
mentioned my upbringing and
storytelling and art and science really
in my DNA these were the stories I grew
up with I grew up in the golden era of
sand I'm out of the 70s these were my
favorite movies I went to the movies
ever it was like my church I have Jewish
it was my temple
but every Sunday we went to the movies
and it then went out to dinner ice cream
and we would dissect the movie it was
the way he talks about everything was
through these films I was given a
Macintosh in 1984 and
that rocked my world it was a my parents
I just got divorced
not very as a teenager and I was pretty
good you know an unhappy teenager I know
that's very unusual but
hated high school I can wait to just
escape from it at all of moments and I
wasn't really happy being at my house
furniture at very so that computer was
like my conduit to the outside world
because I have to remind you this was
nineteen eighty-four this was pre wet
and I was so hard to imagine today but I
like this graphic because this can
remind everyone what 1984 felt like that
was what it looked like before the web
and
but I
was a computer nerd and the space called
back in an hour everyone just doesn't
affect that it was men usually need to
have an apple to he and i had a magnum
to code and and i had a modem does
everyone remember that wonderful sound
Shh of the 80s I had that modem I had my
mac and I would connect that modem to
another library to to allow her to
another library and I
my best friend in high school my family
was from Odessa Russia is an enemy
country her family was from Iran and we
wrote this program called unity toss
which stood for uniting nations and
telecommunications and software and the
whole concept was our families were both
of these enemy countries and we would
write a program that would connect
students all over the world in the
eighties and from that program I was
invited to the Soviet Union as a student
ambassador to talk about the power of
technology and
no one had personal computers over there
I didn't know what I was talk about
and that's kind of my first bubble burst
you know trying to use technology to
change the world
then I went to UC Berkeley and I studied
film history so I had one of these great
professors who had this infectious
excitement her name is Marilyn fade and
how she talked about how advances of
tech in technology falmouth change the
way we recorded reality and thus change
reality so I love thinking about his
gee with film and one be a film director
there was no film production at UC
Berkeley
so the way that I need movies my first
felt and I'm so grateful to this now if
I had gone UCLA which was the film
school I would make very normal looking
movies but out of constraints as often
happens I would make old I would take
old movies from those foam rails or slug
they call it and I re-edit them in to do
movies so if you look at my films a lot
of them or blood was it a very cool up
in a collage skylight take old movies
original animations I should some new
stuff it is very much because out of
necessity I I was um just happy to make
films out of what already existed and
now of course I'm like a kid McCain
stories i used to have to go to old film
enthusiasts closets and get their old
films and cut it and now i'm on the
internet and access to absolutely
everything and so that's really if it is
huge change from you as a filmmaker from
like cutting and slicing to actually
using the web to make dogs so i tried to
make a movie right out of college Spike
Lee had just done it and
on credit cards and three jobs at one
and I started a film studio flicker
fusion films which is the actual physics
of Lyceum moving image and
totally am at my responsibilities brain
and it was all about a sculptor on it
took place inside of his mind and I
promptly got very dead
and felt like it's a little looser and
sleeping a lot of friends couches and
the way I you know my two loves film and
technology so I got a job working I do
they even remember cd-roms I
started working in interactive
filmmaking and cd-roms and I thought
okay this I could get out of debt I'll
use my love of computers and film and
tell interactive stories and I worked on
the cd-rom on staying the musician sting
and I was working on that CD ROM in
Seattle and someone said to me so it's
1994 so easy to me you have to see this
thing called the web there's these
people who were all talking about how
much they love Steve's music on a thing
called website and I saw that and I was
like oh my gosh that was like that thing
I wrote about in high school it now
exists and I wanted to tell everyone
about this thing called the web I
couldn't shut up about it and I was
obsessed and thought I was going to
change the world and I
shortly thereafter founded the Webby
Awards I worked first what they called
the web magazine but there anyway
extension systems that have been here a
long time
this is the 90s I was in my 20s I
respect for you just at just building
something the last 13 years I just know
the sweat it takes and passion and love
but I started to wear these at the first
weddings were at demos oh my god wait
forgot he was in there wait a second
it is
actually I'd never in it
and it is running the webbings and this
is the google had just come into
existence it just hit it right like
basically if you were involved in the
web in early days it was like you were
at the center of the world San Francisco
not a lot of people understood what the
web was that they knew or believed it
was going to change everything and
Andy's five-word acceptance speech rule
and you know mayor Giuliani from New
York try to bring it to New York and we
kept it here in this is this crazy time
where I got to honor the best of the web
is very early stage and say this is each
year like this is what excellence is now
push against it so it was just an
amazing experience to be in San
Francisco running the web knees in that
period we're just about to have our
20-year history so I have been very
that's me very early wear these and we I
do these big performances with a lot of
our technology this is that the sonic
got three and
we bring in a lot of artists I would
make all these films for that circular
screen there and
that's project mandala guess nothing
dancers and and then I wanted to go back
to filmmaking full times I sold it um
I'm still I might've run a day later a
solo partner and
this was the image that I found
yesterday we gave him a lifetime machine
no more excited so the webbing Edwards
has the spy board acceptance speech rule
and no one's ever gone over it in 20
years and his speech is my favorite
speech usually people ask me about the
five or acceptance mutual i always bring
out princess because it's so profound
and some are silly and funny and it
becomes a second mini competition at the
weddings but his was um there whatever
you think is true and
the way he told it to me and it really
helps me when I meet people who have
different political beliefs than I did
which and
because he was explaining how it's their
truth and it has helped me have a lot
more empathy when I'm in a conversation
with the Republican
and I see that first thought about
regrets a choice that made films
is I literally think that quote because
I try to think well they believe this is
true is there truth and I try to be more
reasonable in my reaction so as I'm so
sad yesterday I met
such an amazing artist any was such a
pioneer with our technology he was one
of the first major artists the reason
why we gave a lifetime achievement award
it was one of the first major artists to
embrace technology to have direct
connections with his hands
anyways so sold the web they start their
film studio and made a lot of films I
made film about american jewish identity
told to the history of the burger doll
called the tribe i did a lot of
experiments with using this social media
to find people this obscure dog became
number one film on itunes just because
you know i was into the distribution is
just as interesting to me as making the
film I made it feature documentary
called connected to say that enough time
I don't show you the trailer it's a
feature and connected it was a lot of
ideas for my father and really made last
year his life and
and that I've found you know some
theaters again distribution is really
interesting to me as an artist we did
all the traditional theaters PBS all
that stuff and when I bring that up
because a lot of my experiments our
technology today are playing with that
model I love it a lot of my films as the
moveable feast I don't think of myself
as a filmmaker but a conversation maker
because I think a lot of discussion
materials for all my films and i will
use the tactility of discussion tools
are all handmade I want the film to
elicit emotions and then I want to give
you all these tools to delve deeper into
the conversation so I'm super into
making these like books and conversation
birds and all that so after I made
connected I thought
connected looks at the history of
connectedness for the beginning
civilization to today and well you know
it was very exciting at the beginning of
the webbings when there was about 16
million people online it's infinitely
more exciting right now there's two
point seven billion people online and I
think we're like five years away from
being completely connected on this
planet and what will the potential be
when you have that many people connected
online sharing different perspectives so
the last line of the film is of the
future brackets for centuries we've
declared independence perhaps it's time
to find a forever interdependence so
when I finish that film I thought I want
to try to make a film about people with
cell phones like what can I do
creatively as an art form that will I
want to make a collaborative phone so we
rewrote we wrote a declaration of
interdependence we posted it on the web
and we said if these lines inspire
anything 20 when we read it on your cell
phone or and create artwork for us so we
didn't know what we were going to get
we've got artwork from around the world
and I
don't have enough time to show you about
my first pot it's smoby to the music is
really powerful I wish a just the first
couple minutes because um I'm just
sensitive of time that this was the
first club
[Music]
but in the course of human events
then a full devotion to the course of
human events
[Music]
yeah
I it's a four minute film if you guys
can watch the whole thing it it was so
powerful for me as a homemaker to make a
film people from all over the world must
I will never meet and make this
collaborative project now it's
collaborative but we put a really strong
script most of the cloud from the column
cloud filmmaking I don't like the term
crowdsource I like odd source its work
both in and evocative to me but we've
now made it seven if these cloud comes
I'm going to kind of okay to me there's
something as I thought maybe that's so
visceral about people filming themselves
without a crew there there's so much
more brawn and I think the feature on
self up and you can film yourself that's
probably one of the most exciting things
for me that people can just film
themselves in a journal style and send
it to me
we then
phone called engaged we asked about the
world with their hand on my heart feel
her heartbeat and think about what that
mad that was our next one
filmmaking
we wrote a club filmmaking manifesto
that are all the tenants of what we
consider club filmmaking with art
technology I did yday glass films about
neuroscience it did one on brain
development
and
and then and I work with the State
Department so they've gotten a lot of
their embassies involved do puffle
making with me so we'll do workshops
Lebanon and Israel and South Africa
where they will engage their embassy to
work on these platforms with us so we
were making a cloud film all that
character development the neuroscience
and psychology of who you are and this
is a graphic from the film and we
thought that's do a global cloud film
premiere like I premiered my films and
all these other ways Peter's online
whatever what if we give this away for
free and have people all of the world
have their own screenings and what would
that look like so for the science of
Carol you're going to call it character
to exist films all about character
education and
and we did a global google hangout to
unify all this training starts tonight
250 the first year we had 1500 screams
these are people this is my mom tuning
in those of you that want to experience
what it's like to be part of a cloud
phone from the other words they do a
cold water called I ask the community
questions and they answer
my facebook page and twitter is usually
how i do i call for entries or through
my newsletter
and then i have a series called the
future starts here
these are 85 minute episodes each season
about a lot of stuff about art
technology
and robots and creativity is usually
subjects I explore show you that and
it's raising it so the last character
day which is last fall we did our second
global cloud film premiere we premiered
to new films and
we had 6700 events in 41 countries so
the potential is a filmmaker that I can
make a film in San Francisco it's funded
through grants so I give it away for
free it was a different business model
for me than having investors and saying
you guys have your own event I'm going
to provide everything you need haven't
really hold that poster film discussion
materials for free and you have your one
event that happened last fall in 41
countries we had people tap in from 121
countries
did that make you mention these are the
discussion materials you know I love
that part so we set 3000m for free
and the whole concept is for one day you
look at character from all these
different perspectives so if any of you
are interested there's hope here today
for this year's September 22nd and
I now want to show you one of the film
to close my talk with my most recent
cloud come so you'll see the parts that
I a cloud sourced and this is a
10-minute film
[Laughter]
what's great example of a 21st century
[Music]
very like a sliver of
dishes
our question prompted all these
responses about amazing technological
breakthroughs and innovations and then
we heard one story that opened door to a
new way of thinking
it's about an art professor in Los
Angeles named Mary Beth who is watching
the news around the Ebola crisis in West
Africa I thought wait a second these
patients must be so scared and lonely in
the only humans they're saying are
covered in these huge imposing students
in every report that I heard of Ebola
epidemic they mentioned the frightening
students I imagined what would it be
like a deity and not being paid for bae
gyeongmin I found myself almost a doubt
out why they
might be a good photo and finally I
thought maybe on one cuz that you do
that and we were so moved because the
way Mary best story unfolds shines a
light on a larger ship or singing the
world us technologies are rapidly
changing how we do everything certain
skills are becoming less valuable they
need to memorize perform routine tasks
and soon even they need to drive while
others are becoming more valuable so
what exactly are the skills that the
Paris for a world that's constantly
genius
of course there's a lot of conversation
around this question what should we be
focusing on in school and in life
there's the importance of science
technology engineering and math I like
to throw in art and humanities so not
stem not steam but Steve and there's
also amazing new evidence based research
proving that there's another set of
skills we need that aren't in textbooks
yet so as we learn more about Mary Beth
story and delve deep into how connected
to all the different schools of thought
the hard skills the soft skills the life
skills the confident the non-cognitive
we found five skills strange qualities
whatever you want to call them in yes
it's another list but seem to be at the
core of thriving in today's world so if
you want to know what they are or how
Mary Beth story relates to any of them
you're already practicing the first one
curiosity good news
puncturing my consciousness I started
being more extensively the West African
culture about filoviruses I mentally
just started
problem-solving in our 24-7 the world
where we're inundated with information
from all directions three billion Google
searches a day three hundred thousand
tweets every minute curiosity is the
difference between skinning surface of
all those links and truly engaging and
not just looking for what's already out
there but also for ideas that aren't
already out of them
new research from UC Davis shows that
when our curiosity is piqued the brain
activates regions associated with
learning memory and even reward it
basically turns our minds into very
happy sponges
and while there's a lot of fear out
there that technologies are replacing
what we do our curiosity is one of the
things that makes humans unique for
machines but not from animals
machines follow rules very well follow a
designated halfway
but our minds are built to constantly
adapt to ask questions that create
unexpected conway's pathways that lead
to even more curiosity
[Music]
and those questions you asked and
pathways you open also lead to
creativity our second step and my
immediate response was to look around me
t what was available and repurpose it
for that use
[Music]
we often think about creativity is far
harder but it's important in absolutely
every contest taking different research
and finding connections a new synthesis
a new idea Harvard psychologist howrah
Gardner says creativity is liberating
human energy and in today's world
creativity is so key because you have so
much information at your fingertips that
getting that information is not the
biggest challenge in fact more and more
the world is going to expect that you're
curious enough to do that it's how you
bring your own unique perspective to
connect ideas in new ways that's going
to differentiate
[Music]
research that shows that some of your
most creative thoughts happen when your
mind is left to laundry when you
daydream exercise even when you're doing
the dishes
but no matter how many creative ideas to
pass you have to do something which
brings us to the third skill we need in
today's world taking initiative I proved
scores of letters to anybody that I can
think of many responded positively if I
posts responded positively but getting
someone to come in to partner was the
most difficult part
if you don't take initiative your ideas
will float into a sea of billions of
thoughts being generated around you
every day and
in order to begin and get something done
we use an incredible amount of things
like intuition judgment deserting which
ideas to act on knowing when to shift
directions or approach
taking initiative also means knowing
when to reach actually what would an
artist think about your idea what about
a scientist what about somebody from
another country
which is really about multidisciplinary
think
I reached out to
epidemiologists doctors hotels NGOs even
anthropologists asking what do you think
of this idea how could I improve it
there's so much talk today about how
we're distracted by multitasking but
what we really need to be doing more on
is multitasking across ages races
genders cultures and disciplines we
think of the mind is private and there's
so much value in solo thinking but there
are also so many ways that the mind is
public is communal organ to communicate
to transfer ideas into collaborate in
collaborating just like everything else
about being human can be messy it takes
understanding what you know and what you
don't know so the next time that you're
collaborating how do you make sure that
your mind is really open to being
changed
it really comes down to envy I
imagined what it would be like to be a
patient to be taken away from your
family taken away by somebody wearing
this frightening soup and then there's a
view from the healthcare workers side
you have your human tool to have
except your care gone
MIT researcher Rebecca Saxe suggest that
this skill of sensing the motives and
feelings of others really begins
developing around age of five and has
the potential to grow stronger
throughout life but just like the rest
of these skills empathy takes practice
looking people in the eye truly trying
to understand where they're coming from
taking the time to know the names and
stories of people you interact with
failure
and it seems as our world has become
more and more connected we have to
remember
unless we connect deeply in fact a three
decades long study of college students
has found that empathy levels in our
culture have dropped dramatically
it's clearly time to refocus
empathy is at the core of our ability to
communicate to work together to be part
of our rapidly changing world which is
where you come in
for most of human history we survived by
creating an agricultural economy 200
years ago we shifted to an industrial
economy
just 50 years ago we initiated the
knowledge economy and today we're
approaching another seismic shift some
people are calling the human economy so
here we talk to scientists friends
researchers Mary Beth and here's the
part that we found most fascinating and
hopeful the skills we need grows in
today's world in any profession oil down
to being human
basically the qualities that machines
don't have
[Music]
eventually through hundreds of
connections obstacles and ray threes
Mary Beth was introduced to a doctor
Liberia who later her official
invitation to begin work in their own
clinics
location so busy on our local food too
[Music]
these skills have been the engine of
innovation and surviving since the
beginning of civilization but we've
arrived at a time when your human skills
are just as important as your knowledge
so what can you offer
who's ready
[Music]
so
thank you that was a gar seventh cloud
film there's a whole bunch of other
short platforms if you want to check out
and
thank you
[Music]